Navigate the main view
----------------------

To navigate in PowerPoint and to cycle through the main screen elements, press F6. The elements are, in order:

-   The active slide

-   The status bar

-   The ribbon tabs

-   The Notes pane (if it's open)

-   The Thumbnails pane

#### Activity
Go ahead and press F6 now and move through the screen elements.

### Navigate inside a screen element

-   To cycle within the current screen element, press the Tab key (forward) or Shift+Tab (backward). For example, press the Tab key to switch between the text fields of the active slide.

-   To select an item, press Enter.

-   To browse within menus or lists, press the arrow keys. For example, to move between the slide thumbnails in the Thumbnails pane, press the Down and Up arrow keys.

-   To exit a menu or mode, press Esc.

#### Activity
Go ahead and press Tab and Shift+Tab to navigate within the different screen elements. You can use this in combination with F6 to explore the user interface. Press Escape to back out if necessary.

**Tip**: To quickly move the focus to the first floating shape, such as a text box or an image, press Ctrl+Alt+5. Then, to cycle through the floating shapes, press the Tab key. To return to the normal navigation, press Esc.

### Navigate the Quick Access toolbar

The Quick Access toolbar in the upper-left corner of the screen contains, for example, the Save button.

#### Activity
1.  Navigate to the Quick Access toolbar by pressing Alt+H. You hear: "Home tab."

2.  Press the Up arrow key. The focus moves to the Quick Access toolbar.

3.  Navigate the toolbar by pressing the Left and Right arrow keys.

### Navigate to the App controls

The App controls at the upper-right corner of the screen include, for example, the Minimize and Close buttons.

#### Activity
1.  Navigate to the App controls by pressing Alt+H. You hear: "Home tab." Then press the Up arrow key. The focus moves to the Quick Access toolbar.

2.  Press the Tab key until you hear "Ribbon display options," and then press the SR key+Right arrow key until you hear the button you want.

Navigate the ribbon tabs
------------------------

The ribbon tabs group options by different categories. The tabs in PowerPoint include, for example, the Home tab with options for formatting text, the Insert tab for inserting new slides or images, the Design tab for changing the appearance of the presentation, the Slide Show tab for setting up and starting your slide show, and the View tab for changing to a different view.

#### Activity
1.   Navigate to the ribbon tabs by pressing F6 or Shift+F6 until you hear the currently selected ribbon tab, for example: "Ribbon tabs, Selected, Design tab."

2.   Move between the ribbon tabs. Press the Left or Right arrow key until you hear the tab you want. The tab is selected, and the ribbon is displayed below the tab.

3.   You can also use the keyboard shortcuts to move to and select a ribbon tab. For more information, refer to [Use keyboard shortcuts to create PowerPoint presentations](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/use-keyboard-shortcuts-to-create-powerpoint-presentations-ebb3d20e-dcd4-444f-a38e-bb5c5ed180f4#PickTab=Windows).

Navigate the ribbon
-------------------

The ribbon sits below the row of ribbon tabs (if you are using JAWS, it will call it the "lower ribbon"). When you select a tab, a tab-specific ribbon appears below the tab. Each ribbon includes options organized into groups. For example, if you select the Insert tab, you can pick different items, such as pictures or charts, to insert into your slide from the ribbon.

#### Activity
1.   Move to the ribbon from the selected ribbon tab, press the Tab key. You hear the first option on the ribbon.

2.   To navigate the ribbon and move between the options on the ribbon, press the Tab key.

3.   To select an option, press Enter or Spacebar.

4.   To expand a collapsed menu, press Alt+Down arrow key.

5.  Alternatively, you can use the keyboard shortcuts to work with the ribbon. For more information, refer to [PowerPoint Shortcuts](https://moodle.alassist.us/mod/page/view.php?id=2768&forceview=1).

Switch between views
--------------------

In addition to the main view, PowerPoint has the following commonly used views:

   -   The File menu, which contains options, for example, for creating a new presentation, and opening or saving an existing presentation.

    -   To open the File menu, press Alt+F. You hear: "File, info."

    -   To navigate the File menu, press the Up or Down arrow key until you hear the menu item you want, and then press Enter to open the tab with further options.

    -   To navigate inside the further options tab, press the Tab key or Shift+Tab until you hear the option you want.

    -   To exit the File menu and return to the main view, press Esc.

-   The Options window, which contains PowerPoint settings, such as personalization, ease of access, proofreading, and language preferences.

    -   To open the Options window, press Alt+F, T. You hear: "PowerPoint options window." The focus is on the option categories pane.

    -   To navigate the option categories, press the Down arrow key until you hear the name of the category you want.

    -   To move the focus to the options of the selected category, press the Tab key.

    -   To navigate the options, press the Up and Down arrow keys until you hear the option you want and then press Enter to select it.

    -   To exit the Options window and return to the main view, press the Tab key until you hear "OK," and press Enter. To return to the main view without making changes, press Esc.

Special considerations for PowerPoint
-------------------------------------

To make the content easier to read and select, you can increase contrast or invert colors on your computer using the high contrast settings of Windows. To start using a high contrast theme quickly, press left Alt+left Shift+Print Screen, then press Enter to activate the high contrast theme.

Windows offers you several high contrast themes. To find the one that works best for you:

1.  Press the Windows logo key, then type "high contrast" in the search box. The search results are updated as you type.

2.  Press the Down arrow key until you hear "Change high contrast theme," and then press Enter. The High contrast settings window opens.

3.  Press the Tab key until you hear "High contrast theme," followed by the currently selected theme.

4.  Use the Down and Up arrow keys to browse the high contrast themes until you find one that works for you.

5.  Press the SR key+Right arrow key until you hear "Apply button," and then press Enter to activate the selected theme.

Use Search
----------

To find an option or perform an action quickly, use the Search text field. 

Note: Depending on the version of PowerPoint you are using, the Search text field at the top of the app window might be called Tell Me instead. Both offer a largely similar experience, but some options and search results can vary.

#### Activity
1.  Select the item or place in your document, presentation, or spreadsheet where you want to perform an action.

2.  To go to the Search text field, press Alt+Q.

3.  Type the search words for the action that you want to perform. For example, if you want to add a bulleted list, type bullets.

4.  Press the Down arrow key to browse through the search results.

5.  Once you've found the result that you want, press Enter to select it and to perform the action.
