Open a presentation
-------------------

PowerPoint keeps a list of files you have recently opened, so it is easy to find them again.

1.  Do one of the following:

    -   Open PowerPoint, press the Tab key until you hear "Recent," followed by the name of a presentation.

    -   If you're already editing a presentation, press Alt+F, O. Press the Tab key until you hear the name of a presentation.

2.  Press the Down arrow key until you hear the presentation you want, and then press Enter.

3.  If the presentation you want to open isn't in the list of recent presentations, press Alt+H, Y, O. You can now look for the presentation on your computer or in the network locations you are connected to, such as OneDrive.

    Tip: To search by the name of the presentation, press Alt+O, E and type your search words. Press the Down arrow key until you hear the name of the presentation, and then press Enter to open it.

Read slide contents in Normal view
----------------------------------

Each slide has one or more text boxes or other content elements or placeholders.

1.  When the focus is on a slide, press the Tab key to cycle between its elements. Your screen reader announces the element type as you move between them, for example, "Title text box, text box."

2.  To read the contents of the element, with Narrator, press the SR key+R. JAWS and NVDA usually start reading element content when the focus moves to it. If necessary, to start reading with JAWS, press the SR key+Page up. With NVDA, press the SR key+Down arrow key.

    To stop the continuous reading, press Ctrl.

3.  After reading the contents, press Esc to return the focus to the slide.

Read slide contents in other views
----------------------------------

In addition to Normal view, PowerPoint provides several other views for working with slides.

-   Outline View. Provides a text-only view of slide contents. To open Outline View, press Alt+W, P, and then O. To switch between thumbnails and the outline in Normal view, press Ctrl+Shift+Tab.

    Note: Screen readers sometimes don't announce Outline View after pressing Alt+W, P, O.

-   Slide Sorter. Displays all your slides in order horizontally in rows so you can cut, copy, paste, and rearrange slides easily. Screen readers identify slides by the number and title. To open Slide Sorter view, press Alt+W, I. To return to Normal view, press Alt+W, L.

-   Reading. Offers a way to review a presentation that is similar to Slide Show view. To open Reading View, press Alt+W, D. To return to the previous view, press Esc.

-   Slide Master. Enables you to make design changes that apply to all of your slides. To open Slide Master view, press Alt+W, M. The Slide Master tab (Alt+M) is added to the ribbon between the File and Home tabs. To close Slide Master view, press Alt+M, C.

-   Slide Show. Provides a full-screen display of your slides for an audience to see while you are presenting to them. To start a slide show, press F5. To advance, press the Page down key. To go back, press the Page up key. To end, press Esc.

-   Presenter View. Work with your presentation with your speaker notes on one computer (your laptop, for example), while the audience views the notes-free presentation on a different monitor. If your computer is connected to a second display screen, when you start your presentation in the Slide Show view, the Presenter View opens automatically on your computer screen. If you're working on a single monitor, to open the Presenter View, press Shift+F10, R.

    To read objects on a slide, first switch the Narrator scan mode on, or with JAWS and NVDA, use the virtual cursor mode. Then use the following shortcuts:

    -   To go to the slide preview, press the Down arrow key, and then press Enter to move focus to the Slide Show view.

    -   In the Slide Show view, press the Down arrow key to navigate through all of the objects. To read the objects, with Narrator, press the SR key+R. With JAWS, press the SR key+Page down. With NVDA, press the SR key+Down arrow key.

    -   To switch back to the Presenter View, press the Down arrow key repeatedly until you hear "Return to Presenter View," and then press Enter.

        Note: If you're presenting without the Presenter View, you won't hear "Return to Presenter View."

Navigate through slides
-----------------------

You can use the thumbnail pane to quickly move between slides.

1.  Press F6 until you hear "Thumbnails pane" or "Thumbnails," followed by the title of the current slide.

2.  When the focus is on the thumbnail pane, screen readers read the slide titles as you move through the slides. To go to the next or previous slide, press the Up or Down arrow key.

Tip: Sometimes, your screen reader loses focus and does not read a slide title. If this happens, press Alt+Tab twice to try to move focus out of the PowerPoint window and back to the thumbnails.