Create a new blank presentation
-------------------------------

To get started quickly, create a new blank presentation. You can add a predesigned theme later to give your presentation a polished appearance.

1.  Do one of the following:

    -   Open PowerPoint. You hear: "Featured, Blank presentation." The focus is on the blank presentation option. Press Enter.

    -   If you're already editing a presentation and want to start a new blank presentation, press Alt+F, N, then L, and 1.

2.  Press the Tab key to move the focus to the title placeholder on the first slide and type the title. When you're done, press Esc. To move to the next placeholder, press the Tab key and start typing.


Add or change a theme in a presentation
---------------------------------------

A theme is a collection of coordinated color schemes, backgrounds, font styles, and placement of placeholders. Use predesigned themes to change the overall look of your presentation quickly.

1.  When editing your presentation, press Alt+G, and then H. You hear "This presentation," followed by the currently selected theme.

2.  Use the arrow keys to browse to the theme you want, and then press Enter to select.

Insert a new slide
------------------

With the title slide done, you're ready to add slides for the rest of your presentation. Each theme has a collection of predefined slide layouts. For example, there might be a title slide, a slide that includes a title box and a content box, and a slide that's arranged in two columns.

1.  Do one of the following:

    -   To add a new slide based on the layout of the current slide, press Ctrl+M.

    -   To add a slide that uses one of the other layouts in your chosen theme, press Alt+H, I. The focus moves to the list of slide layouts. Use the arrow keys to browse to the slide layout that you want. To insert a new slide with the currently selected layout, press Enter.

Tip: To duplicate a slide and its contents, move the focus to the slide in the thumbnail pane and press Ctrl+D.

Save your presentation
----------------------

It's a good idea to save your work often. Follow the steps below to name and save your presentation for the first time. For information on other ways to save your presentation, refer to [Use a screen reader to save your presentation in PowerPoint](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/use-a-screen-reader-to-save-your-presentation-in-powerpoint-b239f2e7-34d2-4a86-b597-e2d47f6278c9#picktab=windows).

1.  To open the Save As tab, press Alt+F, A.

2.  Press the Tab key once and then press the Down arrow key until you hear the file folder location you want, for example, "OneDrive, Microsoft."

3.  Press the Tab key once to move the focus to the file naming area. The focus lands on the Navigate Up button.

4.  If you want to continue to look for the folder that you want, press Enter. Use the arrow keys or the Tab key to navigate and press Enter to select.

5.  To name your file, press the Tab key until you hear "Enter file name here," and type a name for your presentation.

    Tip: By default, PowerPoint saves your presentation as a standard PowerPoint file, with the file extension .pptx. If you want to save the presentation as a different file type, press the Tab key once, and then press the Down arrow key to browse through the options. Use the Down and Up arrow keys to navigate the options, and press Enter to make your selection.

6.  Press the Tab key until you hear "Save button," and then press Enter.

After you've named your file and saved it for the first time, press Ctrl+S to save your work at any time.

Add text to a slide
-------------------

1.  To move the focus to a slide, press F6 until you hear "Slide," followed by the slide number.

2.  Press the Tab key until you hear the text placeholder you want to add text to. You hear, for example, "Title text box, text box" for the slide's title.

3.  Type the text you want on the slide.

4.  To move the insertion point to the next title or body text placeholder, press Ctrl+Enter.

    Note: If there aren't any more text placeholders, pressing Ctrl+Enter inserts a new slide with the same slide layout as the original slide, and places the focus on the new slide's first placeholder.

Format text
-----------

You can use different font styles, such as bold or italic, and create bulleted or numbered lists using keyboard shortcuts.

### Change the font style

1.  In a text placeholder, select the text for which you want to change the font style.

2.  Use the following keyboard shortcuts to change the font style:

    -   Press Ctrl+B to make the selected text bold.

    -   Press Ctrl+I to make the selected text italic.

    -   Press Ctrl+U to underline the selected text.

    -   Press Ctrl+Spacebar to remove all styles from the selected text.

### Create a bulleted list as you type

1.  At the start of a new line, type an asterisk symbol (*), and then press Spacebar or the Tab key.

2.  Type the text that you want. A filled round bullet list item is automatically created after you press Enter.

3.  To create a new list item, press Enter.

4.  To stop creating the list, press Enter, and then press Backspace.

### Create a numbered list as you type

1.  At the start of a new line, type the number one followed by a period (1.), and then press Spacebar or the Tab key.

2.  Type the text you want. A numbered list item is automatically created after you press Enter.

3.  To create a new list item, press Enter.

4.  To stop creating the list, press Enter, and then press Backspace.


Add pictures from your computer
-------------------------------

You can use graphics and photos to make your presentations livelier.

1.  When the focus is on a slide, press the Tab key to cycle through its placeholders. Your screen reader announces the placeholder type as you move, for example, "Title text box, text box."

2.  When you find the placeholder where you want to add a picture, press Alt+N, P, D. The Insert Picture dialog box opens. By default, the dialog box shows the Pictures folder of your PC.

3.  The focus is initially on the File name field. Type or paste the file name of your picture. To enter the list of matching files, press Ctrl+Down arrow key, and then press the Down arrow key to browse the search results.

4.  Press Enter to insert the picture to the selected placeholder in your presentation.

Add speaker notes
-----------------

You can put helpful facts and annotations in the speaker notes and refer to them as you present.

1.  While editing a slide in Normal view, press F6 until you hear: "Slide notes, pane."

2.  Type your notes.

3.  To return the focus to the slide, press F6 until you hear "Slide," followed by the slide number.

    Tip: Sometimes, your screen reader loses focus and does not read a slide title. If this happens, press Alt+Tab twice to try to move focus out of the PowerPoint window and back.


Present your slides to an audience
----------------------------------

After your presentation is ready, showing it to others is simple.

1.  Open your presentation in PowerPoint.

2.  To start the slide show, press F5.

3.  Press Spacebar to move to the next slide. To go to the previous slide, press Backspace.

4.  To exit the slide show, press Esc.