### Aids for reading lessons {#aids-for-reading-lessons}

If you need to pause this lesson, press the **Shift** key. To resume
speaking, press **Shift** again. If using JAWS or Narrator, press
**Control** to stop speech, then hold **Insert**, press **Down Arrow**
and release both keys to begin reading where you left off. If you need
further help, ask your instructor.

What is Windows? {#what-is-windows}
----------------

Windows is an operating system created by Microsoft. An operating system
is instructions that your computer loads, in order to work with the
hardware and programs on your computer. Most computers have Windows
already on the computer, so all that a user must do is plug it in and
power it on to begin using it.

Windows allows a blind person to complete many computing tasks, like
browsing the Internet, writing documents, playing accessible games, and
listening to music. All this is achieved using a screen reader, which
reads screen contents and allows a person who cannot see the screen navigate the computer
using keyboard commands for both Windows and the screen reader.

For blind users, a screen reader must either be installed, if there are
no usable screen readers installed, or ran, if there are, so that the
computer can be accessed by the user. In Windows 8 and below,
Narrator is a built in screen reader, but isn’t good enough to be used
well, so another must be installed. In Windows 10, Narrator is quickly
becoming a viable option, but others, like
[NVDA](https://www.nvaccess.org) or [JAWS for
Windows](https://www.freedomscientific.com/products/software/jaws/), for
now, may still be required for intermediate to advanced usage,
especially with navigating the web, and using Microsoft Office. Since
usage of a screen reader, and Windows usage, are intertwined, this
course will teach screen reader basics along with using Windows.

What are screen readers {#what-are-screen-readers}
-----------------------

Screen readers are tools for the blind that read parts of the screen on
request, read items as focus is moved onto them, and give the blind user
tools to interact with the program one is in. Screen readers are not
simply tools that read email, web pages, documents, or folders aloud to
the user, but programs like any other, which allow the user to navigate
the computer, by speaking what the user has navigated to. The user may
optionally request other information, like the title of a window, a
document to be read from the current position to the bottom of the file,
or the time or battery status to be read. Mastering such a mode of using
a computer takes much time and practice. Therefore, practicing using a
computer, whether at home or at a training center, is advised. There are
a few screen readers currently in common use on Windows:

NVDA
:   Non visual Desktop Access is a free, open source screen reader,
    meaning that it doesn’t cost any money, and that those who are
    interested can review its source code, or “programming.” It works
    with most modern versions of Windows, from 7 to 10, and can be used
    with many computer programs. Upgrades are free, but donations are
    gently requested. It boasts support for many languages, can be
    extended with add-ons, and has lite braille support. It works with
    Microsoft Edge, Firefox, and google Chrome. It also has support for
    Microsoft Office, LibreOffice, and Google Drive for office work.

JAWS
:   Job Access with Speech is a powerful screen reader commonly used by
    blind employees or students. Its price tag is a hefty $90 per year,
    or $1000 one time payment, with two upgrades after the current
    version for the one-time purchase, or continual upgrades with the
    yearly payment. It boasts scripts, which tell it how to work with
    programs that are not very accessible, advanced braille support, and
    the ability to connect to another user for technical support. It
    works with Microsoft Edge, Firefox, and Google Chrome. It also
    supports Microsoft Office and Google Drive for office work.

Narrator
:   This screen reader has been included in Windows since Windows 2000,
    and was slowly improved since then. In Windows 10, however, Narrator
    has gotten several updates, making it usable with Microsoft Edge,
    and improving its support for Google Chrome. With its “scan mode” a
    user can read an entire screen with just the arrow keys, and
    interact with an item with the space bar. Narrator works with
    Microsoft Edge, with some support for Google Chrome, which will
    improve with future updates. It also supports some of Microsoft
    Office, and may support Google Drive for office work.

Getting Started {#getting-started}
---------------

To help get you started navigating these lessons, here are some keys to
press for navigation.

-   Tab moves forward by control on a web page. A control can be a
    button to press, a link to another page, a checkbox to check or
    uncheck, a combo box to choose an item from, or a list of radio
    buttons, to choose only one option out of a few choices.
-   Space Bar activates a button, opens a link, opens a combo box,
    chooses a radio button, or checks a checkbox.

So, when you reach the end of this lesson, press **TAB** until you hear
“Lesson 2”, and press the Space Bar. Then, press **Insert + Down Arrow**
which means holding down Insert, then pressing Down Arrow, and releasing
both keys, to begin reading the page. Ways of quickly getting passed the
navigational content will be covered later, or by your instructor.
