Introduction {#introduction}
------------

Just as you can set screen reader settings, there are also Windows
settings. These settings control things like how much power your
computer uses; this is good for laptops, sound volume and enhancements,
display settings, and software updates.

Opening the Settings app {#opening-the-settings-app}
------------------------

To open Settings, the app for changing settings, press **Windows + I**.
Settings opens quickly, and your screen reader will tell you that you’re
in a search box. You can search for a setting to change here, if you
already know what you’re looking for.

To get to a list of categories of settings, press **Tab**. If your
screen reader says that “Windows isn’t activated,” don’t panic, just
press **Tab** again. Here, you’ll be in a grid of categories, even if
your screen reader says that it is a list. Use the **Left** and
**Right** arrow keys to navigate through each item. Use the **Up** or
**Down** keys to move several items at a time. Find the “eAse of Access”
item, and press **Enter**.

If you use the Narrator screen reader, you may already be familiar with
this section. If not, you soon will be. Once you have chosen a category
of settings, you’ll be placed into a vertical list. You can use your
**Up** and **Down** arrow keys to navigate this list. In the Ease of
Access settings, you’ll find things like “Narrator,” “Magnifier,”
“Sticky keys,” and many more. To activate one of these items, press
**Enter**. Now, you can press **Tab** to get to the settings of that
chosen option. For example, if you pressed Enter on Narrator, you’ll
find options to turn it on, change the voice or speaking rate, and
change other settings.

To go back one screen, press **Windows + Backspace**. This is the
“Windows back command,” which also works in many other Microsoft apps,
like Microsoft Edge.

To practice, find the “System” settings category, then the “sound”
section, and go back to the list of categories.

To exit Settings, as in every other Windows program, press **Alt + F4**.
